---
layout: post
title: week 2
finished: true
# date: May 30, 2021
---

This week I learned to work with raster data in python. This includes:
1. How to read raster data stored in a GeoTIFF file using rasterio and rioxarray
2. Plotting raster data using pyplot
3. How to extract important spatial information from the GeoTIFF file
4. How to work with no data values
5. What reprojecting is, why it is important, and how to do it using rasterio
6. Working with multi-band rasters and performing calculations with multiple rasters
7. Exporting rasters with spatial information and metadata included in GeoTIFF file
8. Advanced plotting including classifying data and using lengeds

The idea for a secondary DREU research team was pushed into action, and a couple people showed up! I think being able to talk to each other about our struggles with remote research and working together through them was very helpful. One of them mentioned that they had been struggling with getting a library working for a couple days which really demotivated them, but coming to the meeting and seeing that they're not alone gave them the boost they needed to not let bugs get the better of them! It was really helpful for me as well. This is my first time doing research so I am not sure how this experience is supposed to go, and I'm often left wondering whether I am doing things right so hearing that other people also have the same worried that I do really helped me. Some people who showed up often couldn't be at meetings because of time constraints, so we just started texting each other. Other people didn't really show up for various reasons some being different research periods, different accountability tactics that work, and redundancy as a lot of them have such daily meeting with their mentors. So I decided to stop having them. This means that my big struggle of staying on task for 8 hours a day while I was alone at a desk persisted.

Luckily for me, there is in-person research going on at my university and I live close-by, so I spoke to a couple professors whom I am close to in the Computer Science and Math department at the University of Richmond and they were happy to have me work alongside their research teams. So, I will be working at the university and joining the activities that students doing on-campus research participate in!
